Oh, robotics people. I love you so much. <laugh> this is the, I, I, I, I could,
I could talk forever about this, but yes, there's a technology problem.
Let's focus on that and we'll figure out the actual, uh, impact on society,
how it's actually going to be applied,
how it's actually going to be integrated from a policy and from a human
perspective,
from a business perspective later first let's solve the technology problem.
That's not how life works friends, but okay. I'm sorry.
Yeah. Yeah. So, so I mean, you, I mean, I'm sure, you know,
the division of labor in these companies, right.
They're sort of a business development side. Mm-hmm <affirmative>, you know,
and then there's the engineering side, right. And the engineers are like,
oh my God, what are these business development people? You know,
why are they involved? You know, they're like, um, in this process.
So I ended up sort of coming up with a,
a few different ideas that people seem to be batting around and then really
tried to zero in on a layman's understanding of the limitations. Right. And it,
it turns out that's really obvious and,
and quite simple highway driving's a lot simpler. Right. Um, so, you know, the,
the plan is simplify the problem. Right. Um,
and focus on highways because city driving is, is so, um,
so much more complicated. So from that, I,
I came up with basically six scenarios. Actually,
I came up with five that the developers were talking about.
And then one that I thought was a good idea that I had read about, um,
I think in like 2013 or 2014,
which was actually something that the us military was looking at.
I actually first heard about the idea of, of this kind of automation,
at least in, in, um, in sketched out form in like 2011,
I guess it was with Peloton,
which was this sort of early technology entrance into the trucking
industry, which was working on platooning platooning trucks. And,
and all they were doing was, you know, a cooperative,
adaptive cruise control as they, they came to call it mm-hmm <affirmative>. Um,
and we ended up on a panel together and it's,
it's kind of interesting because I was on that panel because I was thinking
about how we got the best return on investment for fuel efficient technologies.
And if, if it's cool, I'll, I'll sort of set, set this up because it does,
it comes into sort of the story of some of these scenarios. Um, so
at, when I studied the drivers,
you had this like complete difference in driving
tasks. Like we were talking about before with long haul and city, right.
And you're not paid in the city, you've got congestion,
the turns are tight. Um, there's lots of, you know, pedestrians and, you know,
all the things that self-driving trucks, don't like truckers, don't like,
<laugh> right. And they're not paid. There's lots of waiting time.
And then in the highway, they get to cruise, they're getting paid,
they have control. They go at their own pace. They're making money.
They're happy. Well, it turned out, I guess it was around 2010.
This is still when we were thinking about regenerative braking, you know,
and hybrid trucks being sort of like the solution, um,
the problems with them sort of, and, and the advantages, you know,
also split on what I was thinking of kind of the rural,
urban divide at that time. Right. So like you got the regenerative breaking,
right? Um, you can make rock lighter, you can keep it local. Right. Um,
you don't get any benefit from that, you know, hybrid electric in the,
uh, in the rural highway, you want aerodynamics, right? Mm-hmm <affirmative>,
um,
there you want low rolling resistance tires and these super aerodynamics sleek
trucks. Right. Um, where we know with off the shelf technology today,
we could double the fuel economy more than double the fuel economy of the
typical truck in that highway segment, if we segmented the duty cycle. Right.
And so in the urban environment, you want a clean burning truck.
So you're not giving kids asthma. You want it lighter.
So it's not destroying those, those less, um, strong pavements, right? Um,
you're not, you can make tighter turns.
You don't need a sleeper cab cuz the driver, you know,
hopefully is getting home at night, right in the long haul.
You want that super aerodynamic stuff.
Now that doesn't get you anything in the city.
And in fact it causes all kinds of problems cuz you, you turn too tight,
you crunch up all the aerodynamics that connect the, the,
the tractor and the trailer. So the idea that I had was like, okay,
what if we deliberately cemented it?
Like what if we created these drop lots outside cities? Mm-hmm,
<affirmative> where, you know, a local city driver who's paid by the hour,
kind of runs these trailers out once they're loaded, you know,
doesn't sit there and wait while it's being loaded, they drop off a trailer,
they go pick up one that's loaded. They run it out when it's loaded,
they call 'em and they just run 'em out there and stage 'em it's like an Uber
driver, but for uh, truckloads. Yeah. And we have like intermodal, we have like,
we have basically,
this would be the equivalent of like rail to truck intermodal mm-hmm
<affirmative> right. So you put it on the rail and then, you know,
a truck trucker picks it up and delivers it. Right.
So instead of having the rail you'd have these super aerodynamic hopefully
platoons or, or,
or what was at the time was called long combination in vehicles,
which is basically two trailers connected together. Right.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> cause this is like a huge productivity gain. Right. Um,
and then instead of that driver like me,
I would pick up something in upstate New York or drive to Michigan drive to
Alabama, you know, drive to Wisconsin, drive to Florida. You know,
I get home every two weeks. If I'm just running that, you know, um,
that double trailer, I might be able back and forth from Chicago to Detroit.
Right. Take two trailers there, pick up two trailers going back. Right.
And be home every night.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> now the problem with that at the time, or one of 'em was,
you know, bridge weights. So you, can't not all bridges can handle that.
Um, that much weight on them, they can't handle these doubles. Right.
And some places can, some places can't.
And so this put two tuning idea was happening at the same time.
And we ended up on the same panel and the founders were like, Hey,
so what's it like to follow really close behind another truck,
which was kind of the, the stage that they were at was like, you know,
what's that experience gonna be like? And I was like, it truckers,
aren't gonna like it. You know, I mean that,
that's just like the Cardinal rule is following distance.
Like that's the one you really shouldn't violate. Right. Um, and,
and when you're out on the road,
like you have that trucker like right on your mm-hmm <affirmative>, you know,
people remember that they don't remember the 99.9% of truckers that are
not on their, you know, like they they're very careful.
About that. But when you're, when the trucks are really close together,
there's benefits in terms of aerodynamics. So that's the, that's the idea.
So like, if you want to get some benefits of, uh, a platoon,
you want them to be close together,
but you're saying that's very uncomfortable for truckers. Yeah.
So, I mean, I think that ended up at the, I mean, Peloton I think is,
is sort of winding down, um, their, their work on this. Um,
and I think that ended up being still an open question, like,
and I had a chance to interview a couple drivers who, um, at least one,
maybe two of which had had actually driven in their platoons. Um,
and I got completely different experiences. Um, some of 'em were like,
it's really cool. You know,
I'm like in communication with that out other driver, um, you know,
I can see on a screen what what's out out, you know, the front of his truck. Um,
and then somewhere like it's too close. Um,
and it might be one of those things that's just to, you know,
takes an adjustment to, to sort of get there. Um,
so you get the aerodynamic advantage, which, which, you know, saves fuel. Um,
there's some problems though, right? So, you know,
you're getting that a dynamic,
a advantage because there's a low pressure system in front of that following
truck mm-hmm <affirmative>, but the,
the engine is designed with higher pressure, um, feeding that engine. Right.
So there, there are sort of adjustments that you need to make and, you know,
still the benefits are,
are there that's one scenario and that's just the automation of that
acceleration and breaking Starsky, which, um, you know, um,
probably a, a lot of your listeners heard, heard about, um,
was working on another scenario, which was, you know,
to solve that local problem was gonna do teleoperation right. Uh,
sort of remote piloting. Um, I had the chance to, you know, sort of watch,
watch them do that. It was, you know, they, they drove a,
a truck in Florida from, um, from San Francisco in,
in one of their office offices. Uh, that was, that was really interesting.